- what is s3 and object storage?
s3 is web service provided by aws with host of features such as massively scalable, durable, highly available and 
secure. s3 is unstructured storage commonly call it as object storage.
we can store all kind of data on s3 such as analatycal data, application data, logs, media files and data - 
recovery or backup files

 - static web hosting?
static web hosting it is salient feature of s3 service, where we can host our website statically.
steps for static web hosting:-
1) create website page
2) create a bucket
3) enable public and ACL
4) go to properties at last we can find static web hosting, click enable and add website file name
5) refersh page, copy web hosting link and paste any browser

- s3 storage class
s3 storage classes is another feature of s3 bucket, where we can reduce or mitigate expense by transit of data
from one class to another
so we 3 storage tiers 1) frequent access tier
                      2) infrequent access tier
                      3) archive tier

- frequent access tier
standard - (for frequent access, data distributed >=3 Availability zones, can store all kind of data including critical)
RRS (reduced redundancy storage) - (using for frequent access, data distributed >=3 Availability zones, can store non crtitical data)

- infrequent access tier
standard IA - (using for infrequent access(monthly once), data distributed >=3 Availability zones, can store all kind of datas)
one zone IA - (using for infrequent access(monthly once), data distributed >=1 Availability zones, can store all kind of datas)

- archive tier
glacier instant retrieval - (using for infrequent access(quarterly once), data distributed >=3 Availability zones, millisecond access)
glacier flexible retrieval -(using for infrequent access(yearly once), data distributed >=3 Availability zones, will take minute to hours) 
glacier deep archive - (using for infrequent access(yearly), data distributed >=3 Availability zones, will take minute to hours)

- inteligent tiering
it is distict one from other storag classes, in inteligent tiering data automatically transit from one class to
another class (everything managd by aws) according to data usage. (there is no mnimum time among classes)
in intligent tiering aws will be charged for data monitoring and data transition. 

 - bucket versioning
Versioning is a means of keeping the multiple forms of an object in the same S3 bucket. 
Versioning can be used to retrieve, preserve and restore every version of an object in S3 bucket. 
For example, bucket consists of two objects with the same key but with different version ID's

two benefits 1) can store multiple data on same name
             2) can prevent accidental data deletion

 - object lock
Object Lock can help prevent objects from being deleted or overwritten for a fixed amount of 
time or indefinitely. You can use Object Lock to help meet regulatory requirements that require 
WORM storage (write once and read many) or simply add another layer of protection against object changes and deletion.
for enable object lock imperatively enable bucket versioning

- life cycle rule
it is same as inteligent tiering but ourself has to configure, An S3 Lifecycle configuration is an XML file 
that consists of a set of rules with predefined actions that you want Amazon S3 to perform on objects 
during their lifetime. 

- replication SRR (same region replication)
              CAR (cross account replication)(done)
              CRR (cross region replication)
              reference - https://itnext.io/s3-cross-account-replication-42dd83f42492
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) Replication is an elastic, fully managed, low cost feature that 
replicates objects between buckets. S3 Replication offers the most flexibility and functionality in cloud 
storage, giving you the controls you need to meet your data sovereignty and other business needs.

 - s3 batch operations(done)
S3 Batch Operations is a managed solution for performing storage actions like copying and tagging 
objects at scale, whether for one-time tasks or for recurring, batch workloads. S3 Batch 
Operations can perform actions across billions of objects and petabytes of data with a single request.

 - public s3
publicly exposed, anybody can access through internet
 - private s3
publicly not exposed, nobody can access through internet

-differents between iam, bukcet policy and ACL
iam - working on service level
bukcet policy - working on bucket level
ACL- workign object level

- server side encryption 
  server-side encryption is the cryptographic technique of encrypting data on the reciever's side.   
  - SSE-S3 (aws managed encryption, everything will take over by s3, AES 256 BIT)
  - SSE-KMS (aws key management service, user can create customized encrytpion key, RSA 2048, 3072, 4096

- client side encryption
Client-side encryption is the cryptographic technique of encrypting data on the sender's side, 
before it is transmitted to s3 bucket.

 - server access loging
Server access logging provides detailed records for the requests that are made to a bucket. 
Server access logs are useful for many applications. For example, access log information can be useful in 
security and access audits. It can also help you learn about your customer base and understand your Amazon S3 bill.



 